We're now ready to step
into the wonderful world
of advanced Java
completable future features.
And we're going to start with
the methods that kick things
off, the factory methods.
As we alluded to
earlier very briefly,
factory methods initiate
asynchronous computations.
So as we can see,
there's actually
four factory methods
that are defined as part
of the completed future API.
These computations may or
may not return a value,
depending on which one you use.
These supply async method allows
two-way calls via supplier,
and I should hasten to say
two-way asynchronous caused
via a supplier.
On the right hand
side of the slide,
you can see that there's two
different variants of supply
async.
They both take supplier
parameters, but one of them
uses the default
common fork-join pool.
And the other uses whatever
the given executor pool is,
and both of these methods
return a completable future,
which when complete will
have the result of whatever
the supplier's computation was.
You can pass parameters
and return a value
from supply async.
Here's a small variant
of what we saw before.
You can see that we
can go ahead and create
a lambda expression
that will run
in the background in a pool--
in the fork-join pool,
and we can pass parameters
to this using effectively
final objects.
And we'll come back and talk
about this particular example
later in more detail.
This is the example from my EX 8
folder in my GitHub repository.
There's also a pair of functions
called run async that enable
one-way calls via a runnable.
So they both take runnables,
which, as you recall
have no return value.
One uses the common
fork-join pool by default.
The other uses the executor
that's passed in its parameter,
and both of these return
a completable future
that has no results.
You can basically
wait on it, but you
can't get a result from it.
Here's a very simple
example that illustrates
how you could use this.
Once again, you can
pass parameters,
but no values can be returned.
So if you want to
do something that
has a side effect
or a result, you're
going to have to do it
through some other means
than passing a value back
because obviously void
is not a return value.
How we can do it here is by
using some kind of operation
that has a side effect
such as printing
the results of converting
the multiplied big fraction
to a mixed string, for example.
And so system.out.println has
side effects that do that,
but there is no value return
because it's a runnable.
Supply async is by far
the most popular way
to initiate operations in the
completable futures framework.
And I very rarely, if
ever, use run async.
I almost always
use supply async.
But just be aware that run async
is there if you need to use it.
All of the asynchronous
functionality
that's invoked by
these factory methods
will run in a thread pool.
And by default, the common
fork-join pool is used,
but you're able to provide
your own predefined pool
or an existing predefined pool.
Or a user-defined
pool can also be
provided here as long as
it conforms to the executor
interface.
In contrast, Java
parallel streams
are designed for exclusive
use with fork-join pools,
in particular the
common fork-joint pool.
So that's an example of a
limitation with their model
or at least--
maybe not a limitation
is the wrong word--
but an inflexibility with the
parallel streams model that's
been removed for the Java
completable future model.